---
layout: post
title: Flex vs Silverlight, My Views
postdate: 28 April, 2008
---

I have been developing on both Flex and Silverlight for some time, and now is as good a time as any to evaluate these two exciting technologies. My goal was to create two similar applications on both Flex and Silverlight. I decided to redo the Stockastica application. It is an online stock trading simulation. Last year it was done using ASP.NET. This year I decided to use the new RIA technologies to dive into the world of Web 2.0.

A word of caution here. I might be slightly biased towards Flex because I have been developing on Flash for quite some time and I find it simply fantastic. Also, I used the Silverlight 2 Beta 1 to build the application. It is obvious that the final release of the product will address some of the issues described here.

I will put up screencasts showing both the applications in action soon.

So, let’s begin…

<table>
	<tr>
		<th>Flex</th>
		<th>Silverlight</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Almost everyone has Flash Player 9 installed on their systems. So there are no extra downloads required to view these apps.</td>
		<td>Installing the Silverlight 1.0 plugin was a hassle for me. Then the upgrade to the 2.0 version was not as seamless as I had expected. Almost no one has the Silverlight plugin (But Microsoft has Windows update on their side, one ‘Critical Update’ and the problem is solved  ).</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Flex has a rich control library ready for use.</td>
		<td>Even in Beta 1, many controls are missing. Though I expect this problem to be solved by the final release of the product.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Supports all image formats.</td>
		<td>Does not support the GIF format. Why? Wasted half an hour on this problem before I realized this.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Even though AS3 is 10 times faster than AS2 (Ask someone who has worked with particle systems), it still cannot compare with the power of C#. Also, can only program in AS3.</td>
		<td>Very powerful and easy to use. You can use JavaScript, VB.NET and C#.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Linux support</td>
		<td>No Linux support. That’s just wrong.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Databinding is a snap with the [Bindable] tag</td>
		<td>Not as straightforward, but can be done anyway. Also, more powerful(in my opinion).</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Data transfer via the proprietary AMF using WebORB, Fluorine, etc is faster than traditional web services.</td>
		<td>No such format for data transfer. Will have to stick to SOAP and REST web services(for now).</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>BlazeDS, the real time data push and remoting platform is open source. Very exciting.</td>
		<td>!! Did not find much information about this.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Styling is simplified by using CSS to style your components. Implementation is not complete though. Stuff like background-repeat is a glaring omission.</td>
		<td>Have to use XAML resources. Found this unfamiliar.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Debugging is a bit of a hassle.</td>
		<td>Debugging using Visual Studio is very easy.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Accessing web services requires manual creation of ActionScript proxy classes. You can automate this by using FlexTense though.	</td>
		<td>Accessing web services is very easy. Just add a reference to the WebService in Visual Studio and lookup reference.cs for the good stuff </td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Size of the compiled SWF file is smaller than that of the uncompressed Silverlight component.</td>
		<td>Size of the Silverlight component is larger.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>!!</td>
		<td>Get 10 GB of hosting space free with Silverlight streaming. Deliver rich media. Awesome.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Animation is time based.</td>
		<td>Animation is frame based. Can’t say which one is better.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Cannot be search engine optimized. Bots can’t read the contents of the SWF file.</td>
		<td>I am confused about this after the introduction of the .XAP file.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Deploying the final application is a snap because there is only one SWF file.</td>
		<td>Lots of individual files to be deployed.</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>Got my copy of Flex Builder 3 Pro for free. If you are a student or faculty member of an educational institution, you can too.</td>
		<td>Express editions of Visual Studio are available for free.
		</td>
	</tr>
</table>

Until next time...
*Buzzy*